So, we are going to take
a small little app and
figure out how to now reduce
the Rerenders a little bit.
It is there, and you can see
right now in the initial version,
it not only, one point if I keep typing, I
can get it to go even to a yellow, right?
Cuz it's just a lot of things
are changing a lot, right?
And what we wanna do is, to be clear,
you want some change when
something happens, right?
You just don't want more than you need.
It's like as much changes to the DOM and
to the renders as you need as little
as you can get away with, right,
unless the act of stopping it is more
expensive than just letting it go, right?
In this case, it probably is cuz I didn't
hide any ridiculous functions in there.
I just wanted something where
there was lots of glowing boxes.
So in this case, doing any of that
will trigger all these things.
It seems a little ridiculous that typing
in an input field would make
the whole app go wild, right?
So what we'll do is, first,
we will look at some ways to just kind of
work with our component structure without
using any memorization stuff at all,
without trying to stop anything ourselves.
And then after that, we will go ahead and,
okay, there's some things where we have
to step in and go,
this doesn't matter, this does, right?
And again,
this one is not a particularly so out, but
it has enough of the patterns that
we would see if we measured it.
Could I put things to make it slow, sure.
But yeah, try to parse outlook
2003 emails into an ASD,
and you'll find your
slow places very quickly.
It's the same methods
to solve it either way.
Awesome, so I'm gonna switch over to that
app and kind of do some changes as well.
Sure, he's whatever port you want.
And we'll open up the tools, and
we'll verify what my very fancy
screen recording already told us,
that things rerender quite a bit in here,
right?
Every keystroke changes everything, right?
And let's take a look and see,
let's see if we can acquiesce
some of the issues here.
Then we can see that application is
rendering, which runs as the header.
Nice ways you can hover over renders or
items list, both of them over here.
Those are the intergrain,
a bunch of items to rerender as well.
They're getting new props, that's cool.
That seems interesting.
That's probably just function, so they're
gonna call eventually, because each one so
on and so forth.
And there they are.
They exist, things ago.
So you guys see the color kind of
signifies how much you need to deal
with it.
But let's go take a look at the app and
see what we immediately
see just by staring at it.
We know that it's application at
the very top root of everything that
is causing the issue.
But let's take a tour of the absence.
We're gonna spend a little bit
of time on it as well, and
then probably some things will
jump out at us along the way.
We could argue that that could go in
one of those functions as well, but
it's literally just reading a JSON file,
cool.
We got a set stage and empty string.
We make all the different functions that
we need cuz we don't have set items until
we're inside the function.
Right, we don't have the hook for
changing the state.
I can't put that outside, otherwise,
all of the, how do you immutably change
an array, that lives over in another file
because it didn't need to live in here.
But I need to then set items
accordingly with everything it has.
Awesome, there are some
things that strike us at,
do I have to filter these every time,
probably.
You'd have to filter them somewhere,
right, if they're changing, right.
If you can confirm that they
haven't changed any way, shape,
or form, but
that's the same as mapping over them.
So, okay, unpacked, cool, cool, cool.
And then we're just using
regular prop drilling here.
So itself doesn't really
care about removing an item.
I mean, it could, right, but
that's actually an interesting refactor.
We could too maybe, but
they pass them through.
But the first thing we
saw was that typing in
the input field was somewhat problematic.
And so, we look, this is where we talked
about in the very beginning when we saw
that picture of the tree, right?
Here, we have, whatever that
new items name is going to be,
that draft state, whatever they've
currently typed in the input field,
that lives in application, right?
And we saw that application was
the one triggering everything in this
initial case.
And some things will live in application,
right?
Cuz again, in React, generally speaking,
whatever the shared state has to live
at the highest most node that all
of the components are using it,
have in common, right?
So at some point, that is application for
things like everyone's favorite current
user, right, and
replace along those lines.
So, that trigger stuff.
And sometimes the name of the game is,
before we start smothering stuff in
a React app or use or component update or
anything like that, it is like,
could we get that tree smaller, right?
And my hypothesis is that we can,
because I am passing in that draft
state to this new item component.
I am passing in the set new item name,
and I am passing in the Add Item.
And you might be, hey, this might
seem a little silly, but it is very,
I saw a code last week where, yeah,
they didn't break out into a component
pass every day, and they did have
the input field just in here, right?
And that is, the refactoring
sometimes the name of the game is,
take what was just literally just some
innocuous HTML to look totally fine.
But in pushing that state down and
by taking some just HTML JSX and
refactoring into component
to push the stuff that only
that little chunk cares
about down a level.
So it becomes, remember that graph we had,
that one that was just by itself and
didn't really care about anything?
If that one was changing on every
keystroke what the draft item name was,
the rest of the application doesn't
need to know until they hit Submit.
And then, yeah,
you've added a new one to the list.
We gotta update the list.
But sometimes the name of the game is,
yeah, and
I just didn't want it to sit there.
And like, let me copy some HTML and
make a new file.
So it's made for us.
But sometimes the name of the game is
taking just HTML that seems like it's not
hurting anybody.
And I don't need to break this out into
its own component, and maybe you don't,
right, that wasn't particularly slow.
But the pattern in this case is making
the component, pushing that stuff down.
So it is now on a lower node and
not affecting one of its siblings.
That would cause everything to rerender.
Cuz that could be further down that tree,
which is now getting thrashed
all the time, whether
generating random numbers constantly,
random colors, or what have you.
So in this case,
the refactor is pretty easy.
We go into this new item and
we say, what if?
It says,
you are the only component in my app that
cares about what's in that input field.
We care when it hits event,
I'm here for it.
When they hit Submit,
please tell me about what it is.
But in the meantime, why don't you keep
that information to yourself, right?
And this one gets filed under.
I think I told you there was the things
you should probably maybe always do,
things you should definitely always do,
run in production mode.
Things you should probably maybe always
do, which is something like this,
which is just pushing it down the tree,
not memorizing anything.
You're not doing anything, you're just
taking anything that was happening and
having its blast radius.
It's like taking your worst friend and
not letting them hang out
with the ones that you like.
You still wanna hang out with them,
but not all the time.
It's how Mark feels about me.
And so,
we kind of have that state in there.
And that will go ahead and
keep track of all that, and
now I can get rid of
it out of application.
>> So you've had sibling components
that you would essentially be creating
that same use-state in each one.
Would you then put that in context
somewhere else so you don't have to have
the same line of code in three different
components, or 18, or whatever?
>> Yeah, if you have shared code, then
all of a sudden now you play the game of,
pull it up the tray.
The thing about using a context API is,
if you're pulling it up the tree, right,
the context wraps.
You and your entire application
doesn't [INAUDIBLE] we typically.
Well, context API, put on the entire
application theoretically.
And maybe you should by
maybe definitely like,
if only a subset of that tree needed
that context, wrap it around that.
But there's really no difference of
pulling that up and wrapping in context,
that's just a way to more
conveniently pull it up, right?
>> So that's essentially where we started.
>> Yeah.
>> Right, yeah, okay.
>> And so
now we've gotten rid of that one.
>> And let's make sure my code compiles
while Alex asks me a question.
>> Yeah,
what about the most obvious thing,
wrapping the git original items
into an anonymous function here.
>> That'll do it too.
That one wasn't particularly fast,
we can do it, both work.
Cuz it's tricky,
cuz this thing isn't actually that.
So it is rerendering all over the place.
So now we can say, and
if you look at the green lines,
what's the yellow if I
really slam on the keyboard?
What's the only thing rerendering?
Now it's its own subtree, and
it's not bothering anyone else,
it's not talking to application.
Now, if I hit add, right?
Okay, but that's worth it,
that's where the items live.
If it was an application,
that is the common denominator
of the pact in the unpack list.
But that input field wasn't.
That is one of the very first easy
optimizations that isn't harming anyone,
right?
Push that, say, down to the lowest
common denominator that needs it,
and lift it up as high as you need to, but
as low as you can get away with, right?
Instantly just makes the tree shorter
without calling any crazy Malwise
functions, or any kind of cache,
or anything like that.
Just trying to limit its blast radius and
what renders it causes,
immediately kinda solves that issue.